# Game Design Asessment


For this assignment, I chose Donkey Kong Country for the SNES published by Nintendo and developed by Rare. 

The core mechanics of this game revolve around classic 2D scrolling platformer rules; as a cartoon gorilla named Donkey Kong (and sometimes Donkey and Diddy Kong as well for added armor), your main goal is to get to the end of the level while jumping onto and off platforms, evading and jumping on enemies, and overall traversing through the 2D level. You can also pick up items for more points and pick up powerups or “steeds” that are invincible to most enemies and can help you get through the level with better ease.

The Mechanics-Dynamics-Aesthetics of the game can be described as while using the mechanics or rules stated above, the dynamics of the game showcase the fast-paced and empowering ways the player can platform, attack, and essentially play under these rules and mechanics. These dynamics comes through as the invincible steed powerups that empower the player, the fluidity and control of jumping, swinging, swimming, and movement overall, and the difficulty of the short but punchy levels (there’s no health meter, just don’t get hit). The aesthetical response because of these dynamics is a sense of fast energy and urgency; the levels are short but the margin of error to pass them must still be quite small. The movement of the player evokes the feeling of empowerment by being able to manage and maneuver around the level and enemies with control. The powerups give a rewarding ease to the player as they can plow through most enemies without worry.

The design goals, if understood from the MDA of the game, I believe were to create a fast-paced game that demonstrates satisfying and empowering ways of platforming through levels.

This goes into the three positives I found in this game. I enjoy the physics and movement of the game as it does feel satisfying and makes me feel in control. I also enjoy the fast-paced setup in which getting hit once or twice restarts the entire level. Lastly, I really enjoyed the steed powerups because it rewards the player some breathing room in-between being very precise in action and movement to essentially “not worry” and have fun just plowing through the enemies.

Though these positives can illustrate how the designers were successful in their design goals, they fell short in some of the examples where I felt negatively toward the game. For how much energy there is, Donkey Kong himself is a bit slow, and you don’t gain much momentum for running extended periods of time. The levels also feel too easy at times where the player gets the powerups, oftentimes in  a way that doesn’t actually feel deserved. Lastly, the enemy movements and attacks could’ve have been more varied so that players can utilize the great movement controls to evade and attack enemies in a way that feels more challenging and exciting.

If I was a designer for this game, I’d suggest a few changes; first, I’d make the enemies more unique and exciting. I also suggest longer levels because how they’re so short now means that there’s not much time to introduce many different enemies or gain much of a deserving feeling once getting a powerup. I lastly suggest, that though we make the levels longer, to maintain the sense of fast energy to the levels, we make Donkey Kong move a bit faster; this will make the players still feel like the levels are moving quickly, but it will also add difficulty to the level thus keeping that sense of urgency and precision, utilizing the fluid movement mechanics, and making powerups feel more deserved and satisfying.

